\begin{abstract}
The use of multilingual programs are growing, and the demand for the static
analysis of multilingual programs is also growing correspondingly.  Since most
existing static analyzers target one language, the static analysis of
multilingual programs are done by either translating one language into another
and applying static analyzer for the translated language, or combining two
analyzers so that the two analyzer give output in unified format, and analysis
is done with respect to the output.  In whichever approach, the common pattern
is that intermediate representation of two langues (IR) is defined, and
analysis is performed upon IR. The problem is that due to too many components
it consists of, the analysis lacks of flexibility and extensibility.

In this paper, we suggest a novel methodology for implementing static analysis,
which is using declarive style analysis, for the first time. In declarive style
analysis, everything is expressed in terms of "data-facts" and "rules". The
analysis result and the information required for calculating it is expressed in
"data-facts", and how one can derive new data-facts from the known data-facts.
This simple structure makes declraritive stlye analysis more flexible and
extensibie, alleviating the inate problem of multilingual analysis.

To show the feasibility of our approach, we implementated dataflow analyzer for
JNI programs, using CodeQL, and compared its performance in terms of
scalibility and precision with a state-of-the-art JNI analyzer. The experiment
result shows that our implementation is x14 faster, and has ??\%p better
precision. In addition, we implented bug checkers on top of our analyzer, and
we could find bugs in real-world JNI applications.
\end{abstract}
